<h1>Tactical shooters</h1>
<p>Basically any game based on the source engine: all counterstrike games and insurgency take a completely different type of skill which I admittedly have none of and have no intention of acquiring through practice. At the highest levels, spectating a tactical shooter game is extremely boring. The highest virtue of a tactical shooter is patience. "Who can camp and stare at a corner the longest before one person peeks?" seems to be the motto of every tactical shooter I've ever seen. Tactical shooters reward waiting and positioning more than actual combat, of which such combat typically only takes less than 1 second because of the TTK. These games typically have no form of mobility either. The weapons also have the worst recoil and inaccuracy compared to other games, camping and standing still is required to maintain accuracy, so you are either dodging with your crap movement speed or you are shooting but not both.</p>
<p>Tactical shooters may be realistic, but realism is never something I would consider in a great FPS, in a great military combat simulator yes, but not a game. The direction of Paladins becoming more like CSGO or Overwatch is why I uninstalled that game. Three things I prefer: accurate weapons, mobility, TTK that is not less than human reaction time. However, all FPS today prefer to copy big name titles like Overwatch and Call of Duty, both of which are horrible games with excellent marketing and excellent graphics.</p>
<p>Military shooters have evolved to please and accomodate what used to be the most hated type of player: the camper. A real fast-paced arena shooter would not make patience a virtue like it is in tactical shooters, it wouldn't even be good enough to be a vice in such a game. In my type of game, patience would instead be called by what it really is: cowardice. And impatience would be the new virtue, and that would be called: bravery. Only the quick and predatory players who can hunt down targets and react to other stimuli with swiftness and precision will be rewarded. Console players, upgrade to PC or stay out: your needs are unsustainable and your instincts are underdeveloped and neutered due to tiny joysticks that destroy your thumbs and 60hz framerates that destroy your eyes and excessive mountain dew that destroys your fertility.</p>
