<h1>The need for mediocrity</h1>
<p>I have previously viewed that mediocre players ruin the competitiveness and sportsmanship of gaming, especially in team-based games where their cooperation is ever more pertinent but unfulfilled due to their incapability or lack of desire to pull their own weight. I have seen many games bend to their will by introducing more unskillful and luck-based mechanics to grant them more and more unnatural advantages all for the goal of acquiring their money. Because of this, I came to desire a completely skill-based game with zero luck-based elements whose primary goal is to bring the great players together while repelling the mediocre players away. I am now considering the possibility of this not being a possibility in our state of affairs. A game with only good players and players who want to put in the work to get good cannot succeed due to their rarity in numbers. A positive environment with good players and potentially good players can only be established on a foundation where the first things have already been taken care of, namely two things: money and mediocre players.</p>
<p>Mediocre players are needed to help the rising players hone their skills. However, the success of the rising player is detrimental to the enjoyment of the mediocre players and thus counterbalances must be in place to keep the latter from uninstalling. Raising the minimum effectiveness of mediocre players through various means: low TTK/high damage weapons, aim assist, large projectiles, large hitboxes, less mobility, wallhacks, ultimates, powerups, etc. prevents skilled players from completely discharging their strength without being more cautious and calculative in their positioning and cooldown management. Just like the invention of guns and gunpowder, the result is the rising necessity of employing logic rather than instinct to win and survive: this can be seen as good since logic is something that all humans have access to regardless of their physical limitations. Thus these are the means of controlling the effects of the tyranny of physically skilled players by increasing the minimum lethality of all players.</p>
<p>Game companies in their endless pursuit of money have recently taken things even further by increasing the amount of luck that is involved in winning or losing. By this I mean mainly two things: the need to acquire loot during a match, the contents of which is random; and the presence of abilities whose effectiveness is determined by a probability (Think of random critical damage or percent based success on casting spells, things that came out of DnD games). A game where luck has more opportunities to override skill in the determination of victory only benefits mediocre players who would otherwise lose more consistently. While their appeasement is necessary for the survival of the game, it can go too far and drive away skilled players, it can end up creating a game with a high turnover rate where new players are constantly installing the game but veteran players are constantly uninstalling the game after a certain period of playing. This makes no difference to game companies as long as the net result of these installs and uninstalls is an equal or greater number of players which equates to potentially more profit. However, if the turnover rate is too high, then players will not play the game long enough to feel enticed to spend money on it before uninstalling.</p>
<p>There is a natural antagonism between players of different skill levels and skill types. Perhaps it is required that certain types of players be granted unfair victories at precise intervals to keep them from quitting. The inherent subjectivity of every player prevents absolute fairness from not being detrimental to their health. It is inevitable that every group will be disappointed from time to time, they may uninstall for a period but they must all be kept from uninstalling permanently.</p>
<p>If the game upholds a fixed truth that is overly objective, it will conform to the habits and enjoyment of no living human and players will reject it when they discover that they have no ground to base their existence on. It is not about what's fair, it's about rewarding mediocrity and punishing greatness when they begin to drift too far apart.</p>
<p>Having this in mind, we now only have a conception of how to keep the game in line with it's own survival. But survival is not enough to ensure it's thriving and expansion in terms of the strength of it's players. A game can last for 20 years but it's players can be nothing more than skin collectors, that is not a thriving game. The ultimate goal is to have the right environment so that ever rarer and mightier players can come into being. The goal is to make the exceptional more profound but this requires the presence of the ever greater in number and ever more base and vulgar and mediocre players by definition. The latter must be tricked into supporting the game for their perceived benefit so that the wonderful players can be found and raised up.</p>
<p>What is necessary then is to dish out justice and injustice at the proper times. Where the needs and desires of the mediocre and the great are compatible, this must be magnified into law. Where their desires conflict, it must be minimized but fulfilled secretly. The great players are more enslaved to the mediocre players, their existence is more fragile especially on their own, they must be trained to be happy with what they get because the mass is easily angered. But the mass needs to be placed in check from time to time as well, therefore accidents need to be created that persuade them to accept certain decisions that would normally not be accepted.</p>
