<h2>Feelings of power and helplessness.</h2>
<p>Helplessness is the primary feeling one gets that leads to quitting a game. I have experienced it both first-hand from receiving it and second-hand by causing it. Just today I reinstalled Titanfall 2 after over a year of not playing. That was the most recent AAA game I've played and after trying it out again, the graphics were great and the framerate was high and stable unlike what I get from a lot of non-AAA, free-to-play games that primarily rely on microtransactions. Ironically, I found the high mobility wall-running and wall-jumping mechanics overwhelming; player's who've mastered that movement were practically flying like jets and never touching the ground. They would never aim or use weapons that require aim either since that would be very difficult at high speeds and because using ADS requires you to be on the ground. Instead their strategy would involve achieving high speeds with parkour while using spammable weapons like plasma guns and grenade launchers. Not being able to track these players or catch up to them, while dying to undodgeable spam gave me a feeling a helplessness that I believe I can relate to when players in Paladins were complaining about the now defunct mobility meta.</p>
<p>I reinstalled Reflex, the dead arena shooter. Not expecting to find anyone playing, I saw one server with 3 people on it. The game mode was 1v1. I've always wanted to get better at 1v1, for years I've watched the anual QuakeCon tournaments on Twitch, I've watched the pros duel in Quake Live and I've watched old Quake 3 and Quake 4 duel tournament videos on Youtube. I have limited experience dueling in Quake Live because there's no matchmaking in that game, I mainly play FFA and I've played CA for a while, but out of my limited duel experience I learned how to time 2 items at a time. I joined the reflex 1v1 server and began playing thinking these guys were pro, but they were just casual players and I beat all of them badly and they all quit. I really would like Reflex to become popular but I should not play if the result of my playing is players quitting.</p>
<p>From these two experiences, I understand the damage that a high skill gap can have on players. It is a relentless experience that takes more perseverance that the average player can take. Playing against players more skilled than you can help you become more skilled but it can often have the opposite effect if the skill gap is so large that there is zero interaction. By zero interaction I mean, that the enemy can annihilate you before you can even react. This can happen due to spawn fragging, utilizing instant-kill powerful combos, or in the case of card games (such as Yu-Gi-Oh!): a deck designed to cycle through all it's cards and beat the enemy in one turn before they can make their first move. These types of players become predators who prevent competition from taking place, they are either too good or they are playing against players not at their skill level. The quits and uninstalls they cause is damaging to the game, but that should not mean they should be discouraged from playing.</p>
<p>From my post on <q><a href="#05_16_2019.txt">The need for mediocrity</a></q>, I outlined the need for low-skill players for the sake of their potential to become high-skill players. Of course, the reality is that most of them will not become high-skill players and a lot of them will lose to high-skill players for the sake of those high-skill players becoming more skilled. The task is difficult since neither making a <q>fun</q> game nor making a game that yields a hefty profit are the goals here, these are only the means to the greater goal of cultivating and discovering the greatest players, a project that benefits the few at the cost of the many and yet at the same time requires the support of the many without their knowledge or consent.</p>
<p>Unfortunately, there is no balance here that will satisfy both high and low-skill players. Matchmaking, the theoretical solution to this, which works to pit high-skill players against each other and low-skill players against each other fails in practice for reasons such as: the problem of full squads, the problem of applying any modified ELO system to a team-based game of more than 2 players, the problem of network latency and separate regions and separate time zones, the problem of the skill distribution of humans not being balanced, the problem of non-pro players not performing consistently, the problem of smurfing, the problem of different input devices (PC vs console).</p>
<p>Since every matchmaking system does not work, scrapping it and going back to a server browser removes the problems that matchmaking causes while bringing back or heightening the old problems that matchmaking was designed to fix in the first place: namely to prevent great players from preying on weak players. A server browser also brings back the problem of overcrowded servers and server monopolies which cause an uneven ping distribution in the region while consistently giving the same minority of players a significant latency advantage.</p>
<p>Having both a server browser and a matchmaking system fails because as soon as a player discovers the server browser, he will choose to use the server browser every time to quickly find the most populated server and join it rather than waiting in a matchmaking queue. I could be wrong on this point, there could be extremely vegetative players who would rather click <q>Play</q> instead of putting in the work of reading and comprehending a server list. Perhaps the best philosophy is to have as many choices as possible for both the low-energy and high-energy players.</p>
<p>Even still, a server browser works against a matchmaking system because it gives more power for players to assemble themselves for playing with each other at the cost of potentially more unfair matches. If players can choose what server they connect to, matchmaking cannot move a portion of them to a different server for more fair matches. It is the same reason why allowing full squads to join a matchmaking queue does not result in balanced matches. A full squad cannot be disassembled, they become one unit and matchmaking is forced to find and assemble other players to match their combined skill but it often fails to especially if that full squad is composed of the best players in the current region at the current time of day.</p>
<p>Finally, having both a matchmaking system and a server browser results in a split player base which eventually leads to the death of one or the other unless the game is already extremely popular. Either the majority of players will use the matchmaking system or they will use the server browser. Servers populated from players who connected to it from the server browser become unusable for the matchmaking algorithm as those servers are composed of players of varying and uneven skills. Servers populated by players who were placed there from the matchmaking system must be locked from the server browser to prevent the skill variation from becoming unbalanced there. So either you give all the players a choice on who to play with while disregarding skill level and abandoning the hope of fair and interesting matches or you take away the freedom of players to assemble and choose who to play with in exchange for the promise of fair matches. This all presupposes a perfect matchmaking algorithm of which none has ever been close to being seen.</p>
<p>The practical approach is to abandon hope for any decent matchmaking system any time soon and to just have a server browser. There are still ways to indirectly influence the balances of matches, regardless of supposed skill variation, through the design of the game mechanics. As was said in earlier articles, decreasing the TTK and decreasing mobility and increasing luck-based mechanics gives less-skilled players better chances of fighting back against the more-skilled players. This is only good for keeping less-skilled players around but this runs counter to the main goal of the game which is supposed to involve cultivating skill. Balancing game mechanics is not to achieve fairness for my purposes, because fairness is not possible. What is fair for low-skill players and what is fair for high-skill players are in contradiction. What is fair for all is fair for none. Game balance therefore must favor one or the other, and must continually change in a rhythm that gives both groups satisfaction and disappointment at proper intervals. Both groups will be granted feelings of power and helplessness at different times regardless of their skill.</p>
