<h2>Luck and Power</h2>
<p>A competitive game that is fun for everyone is actually impossible. Competition implies winners and losers and losers do not enjoy losing. Having fun in a multiplayer game exclusively implies winning and not everyone can win. Having fun is always a form of pleasure stimulated by the feeling of power as a result of exerted force and it's effects on the environment in tandem with the will, this feeling reaches it's climax when what is dominated is of equal or greater nature to oneself.</p>
<p>Allowing luck to redistribute the chances of winning from the few skilled players to the mass of unskilled players needs to be administered in heavier doses as the number of players you wish to incorporate into the game increases. This decreases the overall intensity of enjoyment of the game for every individual who posseses skill which in turn produces fewer die-hard fans of that game. Depending on one's values, this can be seen as a good thing since it takes a surplus of enjoyment from a minority of skilled and hard-working players and divides it among the majority of players to increase the total number of players who can experience enjoyment of the game. It is utilitarian.</p>
<p>The truth is that luck is only a significant part of any game insofar as it can draw in the mass, most of whom depend on luck to win, and get them to gamble their money away. Only the most serious and honest games whose goals are not to make money do not incorporate any luck into their rule set. An honest game, however has never succeeded in winning over the masses, they only end up becoming a favorite among a small niche audience.</p>
<p>Incorporating the proper amount of luck to retain the support of the unskilled players needs to be done very subtly. If it is obvious to everyone that the game is heavily luck based, people will not feel any meaning to victories or defeats and the entire game becomes pointless to play. Everyone needs to have the feeling that the victory came from their own doing. Only during defeat do they admit that luck played a role in the outcome of events.</p>
<p>The ones who are not oft to acknowledge the existence of luck are the most harmed during defeat since they will try to find reasons behind their loss but will try in vain. The ones who require reasons behind every victory or defeat will go insane in a game where luck plays a powerful role, but it is precisely these types of players who have the potential of becoming the best players.</p>
<p>All of this can be seen to be done to preserve the hopes of everyone and to create a world of interaction that gives a sense of meaning and order when at bottom everything is actually governed by chaos and chance. This is especially difficult to do when the players to be incorporated into this world are existentially opposed to each other.</p>
<p>A clear objective, fixed rules, and reliable tools are what people mutually agree should be in a game. However, there is no agreement on the content of these objectives, rules, and tools. The endless creation of new classes is the impulse to reach out to every possible tool to suit every possible individual's needs while the impulse to innovate every shooter game with unique mechanics such as building forts, spawning portals, and casting various spells is the impulse to branch out to every possible rule set. People are not content with learning a game that is fixed in the tools and resources that it offers it's players in achieving victory. People want to rewrite the rules that conforms to their comfort so that victory will become easier for them. Losing no longer implies lack of skill, losing implies unfair rules, losing implies a lack of champion selection that fits my playstyle, losing implies this is underpowered and that is overpowered.</p>
<p>Every successful game goes through endless balance updates to fulfill the needs of players who need a reason to think they are relevant. Meta shifts always occur to keep one particular group happy until the cycle needs to shift to give time for another group to be happy. The game is never balanced because it can never be balanced unless there is a certain homogeneity among the player base. That homogeneity is impossible with a large and diverse player base.</p>
<p>Most multiplayer games have all the rules under the control of the developers. Whatever the developers say is the holy truth and the players must accept it. Many developers say they are listening to the community and that feedback matters. However, feedback to them is only in the form of statistics. To them, numbers tell the truth more than words. To give a more convincing illusion that the developers are listening, there is at least one game out there that has created a group of player representatives, each one voted for by the players but granted the title only if confirmed by the developers, for speaking to the developers on behalf of the rest of the players. It's all just a PR show, such representatives have no power and are under strict non-disclosure agreements when they walk out of their meetings with the developers. The effect, if any, is the reinforcement of the belief in freedom and choice, not only in the game but also in the way the rules of the game change. Everything that happens in and around the game is about making players believe they have choices and are in control of what they do and what happens to them.</p>
