<h2>Iron and Clay</h2>
<p>There is a contrary mix of focus and distraction within me. Many days are spent fulfilling duties to others or to the tending of my instant desires, but I have not spent enough time fulfilling my long term plan which is the design of my true will. This is what I identify as slavery: to only have time to work for mere sustenance. This is what I identify as weakness: to squander the time granted which can be used to work for oneself beyond for what is mere sustenance. A weak will is the absence of the acting will: the will to act. And action is authentic out of one's will alone, not through another's will. When I am not acting directly from my will, everything that happens to me is a comedy and it shall remain as such until I reach my accomplishment. There is a cold, calculating, force that helps me block out both the comedic and tragic intoxications that serve as tempting distractions from my project. In both forms of intoxications, there is a form of beauty that enraptures and makes one lose track of time. If I am to create new and great things, I must bring myself out of the intoxication of any spell of beauty by ascending to the highest peak of soberness and distance from all things, otherwise I will simply be consuming and not creating, or worse: producing what is not my own. What makes this challenging is that we live in a world full of noise and ecstacy of the passions, so many dangers to the creative types who are concerned with precision and wakefulness.</p>
<p>What is the difference between sleep, watching television, playing video games, browsing the internet, and consuming alcohol or recreational drugs? They are all useless activities that people who are not self-employed find as the reward after a day of work. As a matter of fact, they are all derivative of sleeping. They are all forms of rest and unwinding. When this is viewed as the end or reward after toiling, then death should be the ultimate reward for such a life since it is the permanent end of toiling. The only reason to stay alive with this type of life is for the good set by society, the good that many only know of. But only a few know of a good for oneself, even fewer a good that can be acheived for oneself,yet even fewer a good that they are actively working towards achieving, even yet even fewer a good that they have finally achieved.</p>
<p>Like many concepts today, the theory and passions are backwards. Rest is the means to activity, not the other way around. And activity is activity for oneself, otherwise it is an active form of resting from oneself. In both cases: rest, as many know it, and the active resting: working for someone else, the mind is in a zombie state. Together, this is essentially a deathly form of living: an active form of death but it is not the final and completed form of death: death as everyone understands it: the eternal inactive death. So when one lives an inactive life, it is the means to inactive death and it makes no difference how long this life is because the significance of the death is no more or less significant.</p>
<p>The significant death is the one achieved by a life of true activity, this becomes an active death whose effect lasts long after one dies. Philosophy is concerned with this subject, but it's practical application is not philosophy: it is the political art whose effects can be achieved in subtle ways that may not appear to be political. A subtle practice of politics is genius when it appears to rise above politics and obtain the semblance of universality.</p>
<p>There is an architecture to my project with several subtle layers. Time will reveal their effects unless I fail.</p>
