<h2>Causes of Creation</h2>
<p>Why do people create new programming languages? I could care less for their reasons. But if a psychologist would be interested to know, my analyzations reveal anything but a desire to truly create what is new. It is more common for a programming language, a general-purpose one and not a domain-specific one, to be created to uphold an existing value, tradition, or convention. What appears to be a programming language with new ideas is actually new only in the sense that an inner feeling, common to the designer and his milieu has been materialized into a tool that encourages and normalizes a type of thinking and a type of behavior that has long already been conditioned in himself. What makes the language popular is it's adherence to the world's current way of thinking, whether or not it effectively models reality and the manipulation of it.</p>
<p>For many other new programming languages, they are simply inspired by existing languages and so it can clearly be seen that they offer nothing new but perhaps a few bells and whistles of syntactic sugar. These languages are far less harmful for the fact that they do not progress nor regress the state of affairs in this domain. However, those languages that take a faint or noble sounding ideal and raise it to a dangerous doctrine that imposes itself over all methods of software engineering, then it breeds a class of programmers who prevent problems from being solved by turning the methods used to solve the problems into a poltical issue. This is the same problem we see in moral society where an agent is deemed guilty, regardless of any good actions he performs, until his heart is made completely transparent to the public and the public judges it as not evil. If the heart's motive for good action is self-gain, then it is seen to invalidate any good actions that grow out of it. There is a prevailing morality behind every domain, including ones dealing with engineering. When it comes to engineering, it's effectiveness at shaping the world is hampered by useless rituals and "best practices" born out of the bad consciences of day-dreaming idealogues who prevail in a world where the quality of technology is regressing.</p>
<p>I have learned much up to this point and I have now concluded that much of what I learned must be discarded with only a few useful things being kept. This is the first step to creating something new, is being able to take everything in without letting it destroy you. Most do not have the stomach to sample a wide variety of foods, most do not have the mind to sample a wide variety of doctrines and beliefs. Many who do become like beasts, consuming everything and not having the will to have a preference or say no anymore. They have become completely swallowed by the world and are unable to resist any force. They let the world take them because they have become lost in themselves or they are still waiting for some meaning to come to them which will allow them to apprehend all the chaos they are exposed to as a single unitary phenomenon; in short, they are waiting for god again. The affirmative type transcends beyond this stage of constipation, takes everything in, understands it, digests it, and then pushes it back out. A great act of destruction occurs before new values are established, where the good nutrients are kept and processed and ultimately transformed to be a part of something greater.</p>
<p>There is a pathos of disgust prevalent in the act of destruction before creation. The creator is disgusted by the disorganized mass of half-baked concepts, and deformed results of compromises and stalemates of competing wills. All of this gets swept away for something simpler and cleaner. It is this disgust of a dirty and ruined environment that creates a desire to clean things up and give a single purpose to the scattered lost causes. And so something that is truly new gets created, not out of inspiration from anything already existing, but from a profound despising for all that has barely survived thus far and is only limping along and is ready to retire and make way for a new kind of energy that can help humanity rise to a greater existence. In plain english: everything sucks, I can do it better.</p>
<p>What's taking so long to produce the fruit of my labor? Everyday life.</p>
