<h1>I will</h1>
<figure>
	<blockquote>
		Higher than &lsquo;thou shalt&rsquo; stands &lsquo;I will&rsquo;; higher than &lsquo;I will&rsquo; stands &lsquo;I am&rsquo;.
	</blockquote>
	<figcaption>Friedrich Nietzsche, <i>The Will to Power</i>, &sect; 940</figcaption>
</figure>
<p>My posts on philosophy are convoluted and perhaps non-sense, yes I have been hinted at from those I owe respect to that I am in deep over my head and I should be focusing on a different spirit that lies dormant within me. What they call, the industrious or ambitious spirit. How much more difficult it is for me today to be confident and daring given what I have learned from my experiences growing up as well as my exposure to political philosophy in a world where neither politics nor philosophy is allowed to take place. This post is shifting back into focus on the reason why this blog was created in the first place.</p>
<p>Unlike some of those people who occasionally approach me who are eager to make money off of a less than half baked idea that popped into their head overnight, I have spent a lot of time thinking about my ideas in great detail only to throw them away and start over because the foundation of the vision is lost or inconsistent. If a concrete idea comes and I am able to fulfill it, I will not thank the desire to innovate and create, I will thank an honestly reactionary and ressentful desire from which my dissatisfaction with the gaming industry arose. This desire, not to build and establish a new future of gaming and ultimately sports and entertainment, but to break down the present state of affairs, a state that enslaves gamers through psychological manipulation while dramatically raising barriers to entry into the market for honest game designers who want a real game created by real gamers and not by business and marketing people who have only played those addictive mini-games found on their phones and much less their own product that they are selling. I see gamers on streaming platforms get frustrated with every trendy multiplayer game that they play and they all wish they could play something else if only there was something better out there that other people were playing.</p>
<p>I have highlighted the contradictions that arise when trying to make a game that is fair but also popular, for the sake of the human condition, I only hope I am wrong when I say that a fair game is impossible and that a fair game that is fun for everyone is possible. But given the vast variation in skill and taste of all gamers, an entire player base can evaporate given a few bad apples and that maintaining a game and it's community is like running a government. But these questions will always be there, sometimes overthinking it causes nothing to get done. One thing I learned from my greatest teacher is that politics is everywhere and never goes away. Another thing I learned from my experiences is that technology changes everything, including politics. Contrary to pure idealism, I think John Carmack had the right idea, the technology is the first and most important thing to master. Heidegger's philosophical theory of equipment perhaps relates to this: that once you have the tools, once you have built the tools based on a primordial understanding of the problem, a whole world of possibilities and solutions opens up, before which you are simply lost.</p>
<p>I may not know the solutions, but I know my frustrations with so called competitive "esports ready" games of today: that they use faulty technology that is riddled with bugs and performance issues, that they include elements that lock non-paid users from fully participating in the game at the level of paid users (especially participation in victory), that they use addictive psychological elements like those inherent in social networks and rpg games to keep people playing and spending money when the consumers don't want to or need to, that some of them use subscription based models, that they breed and attract toxic and low-skill players who are not interested in learning or improving while ruining the game and everyone else's fun in a team-based game because they are more interested in grinding for some pathetic reward or quest, that they force people to play on teams when many are just waiting for real ffa deathmatch to come back, that they allow pre-made teams to play against solo players resulting in many unfair matches, that they fail to control cheaters and smurfing, that they are out of control with ridiculous game balancing decisions and the inclusion of game play elements that do not belong in the game but are only included because marketing wants to follow stupid trends, that they incorporate more luck than skill-based mechanics, that their server distribution is unbalanced across and within regions which result in unfair advantages for players living in certain areas while everyone else suffers from lag.</p>
<p>There is nothing to salvage from these other games. All current ideas and technologies out there are terrible. Quality in all things has gone down, not just in gaming but in all software. Everyone who has played video games for over 10 years is dissatisfied with the selection out there but there are no better alternatives and some people do not know how bad it is. Some people are happy to get a measly 60 frames per second in the year 2019. Some people actually think that a game is not pay to win if you can grind to unlock everything <i>eventually</i>. Some people think that battle passes and loot boxes and daily login bonuses are cool and rewarding when they are actually manipulative and extremely anti-consumer. Skins, sprays, and emotes do nothing to improve the core game play experience and at best they distract users from the real problems that persist with the game, we do not need more content we need a functional product that doesn't crash and lag and stutter; we need a product that is truly not pay to win because it won't require an expensive monster PC to run because it won't eat RAM, bottleneck the CPU, or ignite the GPU. I'm thinking of something fast and light, with high visibility graphics and absent of the useless and distracting particle effects and visual spam, I'm not thinking of a beautiful looking game that is only capable of running at 60hz on the best computers, I'm looking for a high performance game that is stable and reliable for competitive gaming and truly esports ready. And no, I am not thinking of a CSGO or Overwatch clone where players die in less than literally 0.3 seconds and I could care less about what console players are comfortable with, they play with their thumbs on television screens, they are handicapping themselves.</p>
<p>I will chisle away all the useless features that I find in games today that serve no purpose other than to make you open your wallet. I will put an end to all harmful and addictive elements that distract people from the worthlessness of some of these games, through an awakening of consumers or the force of law this shall happen. I will create the leanest most efficient game engine that will run on anything, saving people money and cutting into the profits of the PC component manufacturers. This engine will run on Linux and Linux will replace Windows as the number one gaming platform. I will let neither marketing experts nor diversity experts tell me how to make this game. Experts have failed us all. We can't wait around for some out of touch AAA company to get it right, and it's only going to get harder with all the anti-gun and anti-video-game sentiment going on in politics right now.</p>
<p>Let's start again from the technology. Let's make it all from scratch and uses new and promising technology. Let's create a game engine that runs on WebAssembly. I will learn how to harness this technology because I believe it is the future.</p>
